>> Mike North: Next we're going to dig
into some more advanced monorepo build and
task running tools.
The first is lerna, and
then we're going to get to using Nx.
So Lerna, in some ways it's
the original JavaScript Monorepo tool.
It has been around for about a decade.
But what's important to know is that the
way it works today is very, very different
than what you might have seen if you're
poking at it a couple of years ago.
Part of this is because Lerna as
a project is now maintained by
the same team that works on Nx.
So to some degree, it's a little bit
of a wrapper around Nx that allows for
a simplified usage pattern.
So let's begin by installing lerna, and
we're going to make sure we're doing so
while in the workspace.
Root, pnpm dlx learna, init.
So again, dlx is download execute.
That's like running npx if you're
familiar with the npm equivalent.
And so we're downloading lerna and
we're running the init command, and
what it's gonna do is
create a lerna.json file.
Gives us an npm schema.
Sorry, a JSON schema.
It detects that we are using pnpm.
Lerna works really, really well with pnpm.
It does work well with npm workspaces and
with yarn workspaces,
but just the level of configuration
you need in the pnpm world.
It's almost nothing because we already
have this workspaces yaml file and
like you would otherwise have to be
adding more information into this file if
your package manager of choice didn't
make it so easy to parse that out.
Similarly, lerna,
because part of what it does is allow you
to install workspace dependencies,
lerna knows we're using pnpm and
it will follow that workspace
colon star convention.
So this is not interfering with all of the
norms that we've been discussing so far.
I'm gonna install Learna
as a dev dependency
as well,
>> Mike North: Just
to make sure I always have it.
All right, so
let's use lerna to run builds here.
And we'll do that by saying
pnpm lerna run build and
you see lerna powered by Nx and
it's going to each of
these packages and
it's building each of them.
So it can build, it can test, it can lint.
And behind the scenes,
Nx is doing the lifting here.
>> Mike North: We have
a lint error somewhere.
We must have forgotten
something a little ways back.
These are files in a dist folder.
We shouldn't be linting
things in a dist folder.
Let's go ahead and fix that.
Since we've got this error here,
there has to be an ignores already.
Perfect.
We'll do this and dist.
That should work.
>> Mike North: Great.
>> Mike North: So
Nx detected a flaky task.
I can tell you what this means.
Can't tell you exactly
why this one's flaky.
I'm not sure to be blunt,
but part of what Nx does,
it's cached task artifacts.
Meaning for a given set of inputs,
a deterministic task will give
you a consistent set of outputs.
What Nx is detecting here is
that something's changed.
You know what it could be?
Let's see if we get another
flaky task notification here.
It's gonna guess that it's the fact
that we changed our config, but
I'm just speculating at this point.
So anyway, it's running these things and
let me show you
something that pnpm has a little
bit more trouble doing,
or at least you'd have to run
a more elaborate command for this.
Pnpm lerna run build, lint,
test, check -- stream.
Stream means, if you noticed when
we were previously executing tasks,
we kind of just saw the green
check marks for them completing.
We weren't seeing the output.
The only if things error
will you see output.
But if we run this, you can see,
all right, it's doing a bunch of stuff.
We're actually seeing the build output and
it all completes.
If we didn't use stream, it'd be a much
more abbreviated thing where we just see
a bunch of stuff happening in parallel.
You have a lot of control
over how tasks are executed.
We could say, I only want two
tasks running at the same time.
And you can see I've used Concurrency 2.
This would be if you've got other things
happening on your machine you don't want,
say you're twitch streaming while you're
coding, and you don't wanna just peg every
core on your CPU for build and
your video will start to stutter,
this would be how you'd sort of
throttle it down a little bit.
The default here is to let it loose and
run everything in parallel.
But you can explicitly specify
that running parallel,
which we don't need to do.
So great,it's sort of
an abbreviated syntax.
It's kind of cool that we can comma
separate a bunch of tasks that we wanna
run and it runs them on a bunch of
different packages in our repo,
there's also scope.
>> Mike North: Sorry,
this has to be something like seeds/ui.
So here we were saying I wanna run all
these tasks, but only in seeds/ui.
Or we could do this, right,
it's any text fragment here,
basically that can resolve to
some subset of your packages.
So that's great.
But let's look at something and
pnpm can run tasks similar to this.
It still is dependency aware, but here's
something that's a little bit different.